Hi everybody, welcome back. Today I'm going to talk to you about something really important
for entrepreneurs, small business people, and creative professionals, and that is presentation
skills. This is actually a request video from one of my viewers, Rahil Anwar, who
asked how can he improve his presentation skills. The first thing you need to know
is that presenting in public or speaking in public is scary, so if you are afraid
of public speaking, you are not alone. In fact, 25% of people in the world
rank public speaking as the number one fear that they have. This runs first,
followed by heights, followed by bugs and snakes. So speaking in public is
scary to a lot of people. If you're a designer or creative professional, you
are called upon regularly to present your work, so you have to stand up
in front of either clients or your peers and talk about what it is that
you've produced. Entrepreneurs and small business people regularly have to
pitch new business to groups of people, have to speak in public at
conferences, or they have to pitch new investors to get investment in
their business. So as I talk about improving your presentation skills, I'm
going to break it into three buckets. Prep, what you do in the room,
and what you do afterwards. So let's talk about prep a little bit. One of
the things you can do to improve your skills is you can watch the
greats. Ted has some amazing videos from some of the best speakers in the
world, and I encourage you to look at as many TED Talks as you can and really
kind of deconstruct what people do. How do they start off their talk? How do
they engage the audience? How do they tell a story? How do they walk? How
do they move? How do they present the slides that are behind them? What's
the cadence of their speech? Do they tell jokes? Are they serious? Are they
quiet? Are they loud? Deconstruct how different people present. You can learn
a lot from that. Also, prep, preparing for your speech or how you present, is
the most important thing. So knowing your material. You need to know your
material cold. You need to read through it a million times. Write
speaker notes and read through them. Internalize it. You want to practice
it. You want to run through it over and over. One thing that you can do
that's really helpful is to watch yourself. You can either watch yourself
in a mirror, which is tough to do because as you're speaking and also
looking at yourself, it can be very disconcerting. So actually speaking to
a mirror is one of those things that's very helpful in learning
presentation skills. The other thing you can do is to audio tape yourself
or video tape yourself. I suggest video. Everyone's got a smartphone in
their pocket, so they can video tape themselves very easily. You will
notice your habits of speech, whether you say um or ah or, you know, have
long pauses or whether you're rushing your speech or whether you're
pacing too much or whether you're using the hands too much. Those things
will become really apparent to you as you present and practice and run
through your talk or your speech. And when you watch those things, try
to make note of the things that you want to improve. Next time you
video yourself, try to be a little better at it. Try to watch your um's
and ah's or how you're moving your hands. Do it over and over and
try to refine your comfort with how you present. And also because
you're watching yourself, it's really easy to lose perspective. So you
are watching yourself and you can't distance yourself from seeing
what other people might be able to see. So it's also important to
get feedback or invite constructive criticism from other people.
Get them to watch the video or better yet, present to other people,
your wife, your girlfriend, your significant other, and ask them
to give you constructive feedback and not hold back around what
it is that you're doing that's great and what it is that you're doing
that may not be so great. So let's talk about the second bucket of
presentation skills. And that's what you do when you're in the
room. The first thing you do is when you get to the room, you
show up to the room early so you can have a moment to collect
your thoughts, to breathe. So you're not feeling rushed going
into your presentation.